+++
draft = "false"
date = "2023-06-19T14:48:34-04:00"
publishdate = "2023-06-19T14:48:34-04:00"
description = ""
tags = ["dnd"]
title = "Old Friends"
topics = []
+++

It was the last day of my senior year of high school.  Since seniors
finished school a week earlier than everyone else, my final project in
auto shop had to be evaulated.  My partner and I had done a partial
rebuild of a Vega engine.  Mr. P. came over with his handtruck and
other hardware for starting engines.  He hooked up the jumper cables
and tried to start it.  Nothing, it was turning over, but never
firing.  But he kept trying until, finally, a gout of flame jumped
several feet out of the carburetor towards the ceiling.  Mr. P. jumped
back (as we all did), recomposed himself, realigned his ridiculous
comb-over, quietly unhooked the jumper cables, said "you pass" without
making eye contact and walked away.  I'm sure my partner was able to
get the engine going in the next week, since he actually knew what he
was doing.

I don't remember much else about the day, but after the last bell,
walked out the front doors right to my father's pickup, who was
waiting for me.  Everything had been packed the night before.  We
immediately started driving south.  I wanted to be as far away from
there as I could.  I wanted a clean break.  By the time the graduation
ceremony rolled around I was in Los Angeles; the cap and gown in my
closet would never be worn, and I would have no further contact with
anyone from high school, except...

A few weeks later, I drove to Portland and met up with Lance and Chris to play Dungeons and Dragons.
We [started playing D&D]({{<relref "2019-09-10-dnd.md">}}) several years earlier and had played regularily ever since, and with only a short break for my trip and time for Lance to move to Portland, we resumed where right where we left off and kept on for 12 more years.  There were big changes in all of our lives 

I didn't really think of the importance of those two friends or of Dungeons and Dragons for many years.  When you are young you don't think about such things.  But when a [chance occurrence]({{<relref "2019-09-10-dnd.md">}}) made me think of Dungeons and Dragons, I tried to get back in contact.

I located Chris in 2019 and when the pandemic started the next year we started playing online, with his sister and kids joining in.

All through this I struggled to find Lance, every phone number I found did not work, the addresses were all out of date.  But early this year my searching turned up a new address, so as I had done with every other address I found, I sent a letter.  In the midst of a Father's day get-together my phone rang.  Some random 503 number, probably junk.  But instead, a vaguely familiar voice asked for me by name.  It was Lance!  It is hard to express how happy I was.

So these two were the *only* friends from my childhood who I stayed in
contact with, and I credit that to Dungeons and Dragons.  At the time,
I think we all just though of it as a game, something to spend our
Saturday afternoon doing to avoid homework.  But now I see it was the
glue that kept us getting together on a regular basis for all those
years, and it helped us build a relationship that was deep enough that
after a 20 year hiatus, we were able to just pick up where we left
off.

Mike Shea wrote a touching article entitled [Playing D&D Can Save Your Life](https://slyflourish.com/playing_dnd_can_save_your_life.html) which all of us middle aged men should read.  And then pick up the phone and call that old friend you lost touch with.  Get together regularly, and maybe an ongoing game would be just the thing to ensure you keep it up.  It may save your life.


