+++
date = "2024-08-09T10:37:42-04:00"
description = ""
draft = false
tags = ["guns"]
title = "Shooting for Gold"
topics = []
+++

A couple of days into the Olympics, by step-son pointed out that the US had not won *ANY* medals in one event:  [shooting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shooting_at_the_2024_Summer_Olympics).  I was shocked.  For the United States the gun is the holiest of holy!  How could we not get any medals?  To my relief, in the subsequent days the US did win *some* medals, including a single gold, but we still placed third overall.  What a tragedy!

I came to the conclusion that the structure of the existing Olympic event was not fully compatible with the gun culture in the United States.  We should push to get a new event which would better reflect our true skills as a country.  The event should take place in a large room, the targets scattered randomly in the room, some of them partly behind obstacles like desks, chairs, and tables.  The targets should be smaller, maybe 4 feet tall.  The goal would be to burst through the door and shoot as many targets as possible.  There would be several rooms set up like this, and the goal is to go from room to room and shoot as many targets as possible in limited time (the average 911 response time).  The firearms used would be limited to ones which can be legally purchased in the shooter's country, which should further guarantee the US supremacy in the event.

I do hope you will all consider my [Modest Proposal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Modest_Proposal) carefully;  I feel this sort of event would truly showcase one of our greatest skills as a nation.  We must not throw away our shot.


Many of us do not think much about school shootings, as we are often far removed from them.  In my case, had I lived one mile to the east and had my daughter been one year older, she could have been in one of those classrooms at Sandy Hook.  As such, I often paraphrase what Phil Ochs said about the events at the 1968 Democratic National Convention:  "It doesn't really matter if you were in [Sandy Hook](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandy_Hook_Elementary_School_shooting) or not, because Sandy Hook is going to come everywhere in the US, and we will all get to meet Adam Lanza, in person, one way or the other." (the original quote was in his intro to the song 
["William Butler Yeats Visits Lincoln Park and Escapes Unscathed"](http://web.cecs.pdx.edu/~trent/ochs/lyrics/william-butler-yeats-visits-lincoln-park.html) at [a performance in Vancouver, 1968](http://web.cecs.pdx.edu/~trent/ochs/livevanc.html), [listen here](https://youtu.be/VWEBlZ7C_lE?si=8rDLaMxv-m9cTkAC))
