+++
draft = "false"
date = "2025-01-08T00:00:00-05:00"
publishdate = "2025-01-08T00:00:00-05:00"
description = ""
tags = ["cars"]
title = "Who's Driving?"
topics = []
+++

Some time ago I had a long discussion with my father (someone who has a long history with cars starting with riding his father's new Ford Model A)
about the prospect of autonomous cars.
I don't have any particular knowledge on the topic, beyond working in an unrelated specialty of computer science.  Though I do have [experience being hit by a car](http://web.cecs.pdx.edu/~trent/dfcrash.html).  And I got a "C" in high-school auto shop class.  So take everything I say with appropriate grains of salt.

I started out arguing that having a computer drive a car was a hopeless task.
Think about what we have to do every time we drive:  we have a multitude of  different controls; we have to monitor other cars, pedestrians, bikes, animals, all moving in every direction; we have to monitor our location in the road and understand all the markings and signs to know where to go next.  I am teaching my teenage daughter to drive, and I find more and more things to explain to her.  There's a reason we require them to practice with an adult in the car for quite a while before they can do this on their own.

Furthermore, I don't have faith that we could even write software reliable enough to do all this.  I have written about the sad state of software on this blog for many years.  We all have to deal with lousy software every day.  It should be self-evident that this is a problem.

Midway through this discussion I had a sudden realization: Humans are really awful at driving.  I mean, really awful!  We accept the fact that the most likely way for our children to die is due to a car.  We just accept that cars will kill 40,000 each year (in the U.S.).
The computer doesn't have to be a perfect driver, just better than humans.
The computer has a VERY low bar to clear.
A computer isn't going to drive drunk, or text while driving, or get road rage, or drive too fast on icy roads, etc.
A computer may fail to notice a stop sign, or not notice the bicycle in the next lane, but humans do that ALL THE TIME!

Should we be terrified of getting into a autonomous car?  Sure.  Should we should also be terrified of getting in a car with Aunt Mildred?  Absolutely!  Or be afraid trying to walk across the street?  Damn right!

The fundamental problem is that you have a ton of steel moving at high speeds to carry your (comparatively) tiny body from one place to another.  It's a waste of materials, resources, and [lives](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motor_vehicle_fatality_rate_in_U.S._by_year), no matter who's driving.

